---
title: Multipoint MFEM for Biot poroelasticity
header: 
  teaser: /assets/images/midirom_papers/pressure.png
  overlay_image: /assets/images/midirom_papers/pressure.png
excerpt: Mixed and multipoint finite element methods for rotation-based poroelasticity.
---

[ArXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.12448){: .btn .btn--info}

## Key ideas

- By rewriting the linear elasticity equations as a weighted vector-Laplacian, we obtain a four-field formulation of Biot poroelasticity in terms of solid rotation, solid displacement, fluid flux, and fluid pressure.
- The relevant function spaces form a differential complex that can be preserved by discretizing with lowest order finite element spaces.
- A structure-preserving quadrature rule allows us to eliminate the solid rotation and fluid flux.
- The system is analyzed using parameter-weighted norms and perturbed saddle point theory.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/midirom_papers/deRham_Biot.png" caption="The finite element spaces for solid rotation, solid displacement, fluid flux, and fluid pressure. Both the solid rotation and fluid flux are eliminated locally, resulting in a scheme with one degree of freedom per facet and cell." %}

## Main findings
- The resulting method uses employs the lowest order Raviart-Thomas finite element pair for the displacement and pressure variables.
- Linear convergence in all variables is shown both theoretically and experimentally.
- Certain properties of the solutions remain invariant under the low-order quadrature, including the curl of the rotation.
- The analysis in parameter-weighted norms guides the construction of preconditioners that are robust in all relevant physical limits.
- A drawback is that the formulation is based on unconventional boundary conditions and currently does not directly handle traction conditions.